So let's talk about KMS key rotation.
So first of all, you can have automatic rotation
for any KMS keys that is managed by AWS.
They are automatically rotated every one year.
If you have your own customer-managed symmetric KMS key,
then you can enable automatic key rotation,
but this is optional.
And then you need to set the rotation period
any time between 90 and 2,560 days.
But by default, it is also one year.
And when you enable the key rotation,
of course the previous key is kept active
so you can decrypt all data.
The new key will have the same KMS key ID,
so only the backing key is changed.
For example, here is the backing key,
and we have a KMS key ID.
We're going to have automatic key rotation,
and the backing key is changing,
but the KMS key ID is not changing.
And behind the scenes, well now,
you have the current backing key
and also the saved backing key.
So on top of automatic key rotation,
we have on-demand key rotation.
So this is for your customer managed symmetric KMS keys.
So not for the CMK that are managed by AWS.
And this does not require automatic
key rotation to be enabled.
It also does not change any existing
automatic rotation schedule.
And you have a limit to how many times you can trigger
an on-demand key rotation.
So same idea, you have a backing key,
you're going to trigger an on-demand key rotation,
and then at the end, you're going to get
a new backing key and a saved backing key.
But the KMS key ID will not have changed.
Next, we have manual key rotation.
So this is very much an edge case now, I would say.
This is when you want to rotate key, for example,
every month, and this is not supported by KMS.
Then you have to create a new key.
And the new key will have a different KMS key ID.
And you're going to have to keep the previous key active
so you can decrypt your old data.
In this case, to have your application function seamlessly,
it's better to use aliases
to hide the change of key for the application.
So it's a good solution to rotate KMS keys.
For keys that are not eligible for automatic rotation,
for example, the asymmetric KMS key.
So how does it work?
Well, let's say our client is talking to a KMS key ID,
and it has an alias called MyCustomKey.
And we're going to rotate the key manually.
So that means we're going to create a new key
that's going to have a new KMS key ID,
and we're going to update the alias
so that now, my custom key is pointing into that key.
And the previous key is still going to be kept.
And so therefore, we'll have performed a manual key rotation
because our application is going to seamlessly talk
to the new key while having the old one preserved
for any kind of decryption and operation.
So how does it work to update the alias?
Well, you update the alias to hide, again,
the change to your application.
So your application only interacts
from an API perspective with your key alias, MyAppKey.
And then the old key of the key alias
is the one you had before rotation.
And after rotation, you're going to create a new key,
and you're going to issue an UpdateAlias API call.
And this added alias
will have the alias point to the new key.
And therefore, from an application perspective,
the change will not be detected,
it will just be transparent, okay?
So what you need to remember from an exam perspective
is that if you want to have automatic key rotation,
the period is one year.
But if you want to have manual key rotation,
then you can go to 90 days or 180 days
based on the requirements.
And all the extra information I gave you
is just to show you how this would work in real life,
but the exam will not test you
on the details as far as I know, okay?
So that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.